**Terms
****
Genomics**

* **Location** : a position on a chromosome. People have ~3 billion locations in their genetic code.
* **Variant** : a specific location on a chromosome where different people can have different genotypes or haplotypes. A rough estimate is that each person has 3 million variants.
* **Genotype** : a person's genetic code at a specific location, represented by 2 potentially different letters because each person generally has 2 instances of each location (i.e. G/A)
* **Haplotype** : half of a person's genetic code at a specific location, given with 1 letter (i.e. G)
* **Allele** : a specific haplotype, categorized into "reference allele" (i.e. G) and "alternate allele" (i.e. A)
* **Biallelic** : a variant which is only represented by 2 different letters in our data (i.e. only G and A are present for all the people in our data, not T or C). Most variants are biallelic.

Genomic Sequencing File Types

* .bam files - mapped reads
* .bed files - representations of genomic regions
* .vcf files - variants

Google Genomics API Terms

**Datasets** --A dataset is a logical grouping of genomic data and analysis associated with your cloud project. For example, a dataset might consist of aligned reads and variant calls from the 1000 Genomes project.

**Read group sets** — A read group set is a collection of reads, along with metadata about the sample, any processing that was performed, and the reference sequence.  In the simplest case, a read group set maps to a FASTQ or BAM file from a single sample, aligned with a particular alignment algorithm and parameters. When a BAM file contains reads from multiple biological samples, the reads are split up into multiple read group sets, one per sample. When multiple BAM files contain reads from the same sample, they must be merged into a single BAM file before import in order to create a single read group set.

**Reads** — Reads are nucleotide sequences generated by a DNA sequencing instrument, along with quality scores and metadata. Reads may be aligned to a reference sequence, or unaligned.

**References** — A reference is a canonical assembled DNA sequence, intended to act as a reference coordinate space for other genomic annotations. A single reference might represent the human chromosome 1 or mitochandrial DNA, for instance. A reference belongs to one or more reference sets.

**Reference sets** — A reference set is a set of references which typically comprise a reference assembly for a species, such as GRCh38 which is representative of the human genome. A reference set defines a common coordinate space for comparing reference-aligned experimental data. A reference set contains 1 or more references.

**Variants** — Variants are positions of genetic difference in a collection of call sets. Each variant identifies a position in a reference genome, a type of variant like SNP, insertion or deletion, the alternate allele, and the call sets that contain the variant. Variants may have standard names, like rs1234. Variants belong to a variant set.

**Variant sets** — A variant set is a collection of call sets and variants. It contains summary statistics of those contents. A variant set belongs to a dataset.

**Call set**s — A call set is a collection of variant calls, coming from a single sample using a particular variant calling algorithm and parameters.

**Operations** — Import and export of variants and reads, along with custom pipelines, are long-running operations. An operation resource maintains state, which can be queried for input and output details, along with execution status.
* * *

